 - A systematic tendency for the system to favour certain items over others leading to skewed recommendations that might not accurately reflect a users interests

## Types of Biases
### 1. Statistical Bias
- Situation where the recommender algorithm consistently favours certain items over others based on following factors:
	- **Popularity**
	- **Exposure**
### 2. Cultural Bias
- Situation where the recommender algorithm favours content from dominant cultures leading to under-representation and marginalization of minority cultures.
- eg. Movie, News and Music
### 3. Cognitive Bias
- A systematic deviation from accurately reflecting a user's true preferences due to system's reliance on factors like:
	- Past user behaviour
	- Popularity of items or
	- Other biases in data
- eg. if a user watches a few action movies the system will only keep recommending action movie but watching few action movies doesn't solidify that the user only like action movies.

### 4. Data and Algorithmic Bias
1. **Presentation Bias** : Items getting more exposure
2. **Position Bias** : which items are presented in the upper right corner of the page.
3. **Social Bias** : which items include 4 to 5 star reviews
4. **Interaction Bias** : which items are seen only by scrolling.

### 5. Self-Selection Bias
1. **Ranking Bias** : Users assume that higher-ranked items are better choices.
2. **Click Bias** : Clicks on an item are considered as positive user feedback.
3. **Mouse Movement Bias** : Hovering over an item is considered as positive user feedback.